Status: 
Tag: #StaticConstructor
Links: [[119 Constructors]]

---
> [!note] 
>  # Static Constructor

In C#, a static constructor is a special type of constructor that is used to initialize the <font style="color:#b562f9">static</font> members of a class. It is <font style="color:#b562f9">called</font> only <font style="color:#b562f9">once</font>, automatically, before any static member of the class is accessed or any instance of the class is created.

``` run-csharp
public class MyClass
{
    public static int Count { get; set; }

    static MyClass()
    {
        // Static constructor
        Count = 0;
    }
}

class Program
{
    static void Main(string[] args)
    {
        Console.WriteLine(MyClass.Count); // Output: 0

        MyClass.Count = 5;

        Console.WriteLine(MyClass.Count); // Output: 5
    }
}

```

> [!attention] 
> - Static constructors cannot be called directly or used to create instances of the class. They are automatically invoked by the runtime before any static member is accessed or any instance is created.
> - Static constructors have no parameters and cannot be overloaded.
> - Static constructors cannot be inherited or overridden. Each class can have only one static constructor, and it is executed for that particular class.
> - Static constructors execute in a thread-safe manner by default, ensuring that they are executed only once, even in a multi-threaded environment.

--- 

> [!faq] 
>  # Use Case:

> [!example] 
> #### Setting Up Static Resources 

If your class utilizes static resources such as <font style="color:#b562f9">databases</font>, <font style="color:#b562f9">network connections</font>, or <font style="color:#b562f9">file handles</font>, a static constructor can be used to set up and initialize these resources. It ensures that the resources are properly configured before any operation is performed using the static members of the class.

---
References: