Status: 
Tag: #CopyConstructor
Links: [[119 Constructors]]

---
> [!note] 
>  # Copy Constructor

In C#, a copy constructor is a special constructor used to create a new object by making a copy of an existing object. It allows you to initialize a new object with the same values as an existing object of the same type.

``` run-csharp
class MyClass
{
    public int Value { get; set; }

    // Copy constructor
    public MyClass(MyClass original)
    {
        Value = original.Value;
    }
}

class Program
{
    static void Main(string[] args)
    {
        MyClass obj1 = new MyClass();
        obj1.Value = 10;

        MyClass obj2 = new MyClass(obj1); // Creating a copy using the copy constructor

        Console.WriteLine(obj1.Value); // Output: 10
        Console.WriteLine(obj2.Value); // Output: 10
    }
}

```

> [!warning] 
> It's worth noting that in C#, you can also use the `Object.MemberwiseClone` method to create a shallow copy of an object. However, this approach has certain limitations, such as not copying referenced objects. Therefore, manually implementing a copy constructor gives you more control over the copying process. 

---

> [!faq] 
> # Use Cases:
>

> [!example] 
>  #### Immutable Objects: 

If you have immutable objects in your codebase, meaning their state cannot be modified after creation, a copy constructor allows you to create <font style="color:#b562f9">new instances</font> with the same values. This can be useful for creating copies of immutable objects for different operations or calculations <font style="color:#b562f9">without modifying </font>the <font style="color:#b562f9">original</font> object.


> [!example] 
> #### Cloning 

In some cases, you may want to create a <font style="color:#b562f9">deep copy</font> of an <font style="color:#b562f9">object</font>, where not only the object itself but also its <font style="color:#b562f9">internal references</font> are duplicated. A copy constructor can be used to achieve this by copying the values of the referenced objects or by creating new instances of the referenced objects.


> [!example] 
> #### Object Initialization
> 

When creating a new object, you might have a <font style="color:#b562f9">similar object</font> from which you want to <font style="color:#b562f9">copy</font> some <font style="color:#b562f9">initial values</font>. Instead of manually assigning each property, you can use a copy constructor to conveniently initialize the new object with the values of the existing object.

> [!example] 
> #### Prototype Design Pattern 

The copy constructor can be used in conjunction with the <font style="color:#b562f9">prototype design pattern</font>, which involves creating new objects by copying existing objects (prototypes). By implementing a copy constructor, you can easily clone prototype objects to create new instances with similar initial state.

---
References: