Status: 
Tag: #Nullable #NullableUseCase #NullableSyntax
Links: [[103 Value Type]]

---
> [!note] 
>  # Nullable:

Nullable types are a feature in C# that allow you to assign <font style="color:#b562f9">null</font> values to value types, such as integers, floats, or booleans. By <font style="color:#81fd83">default</font>, value types <font style="color:#81fd83">cannot</font> be assigned a <font style="color:#81fd83">null</font> value because they are allocated on the stack and must always have a value.

Nullable types provide a way to work with value types as if they were reference types, which can be assigned a null value.

# Nullable Declaration:

You can declare nullable types using `Nullable<t>` where T is a type.

``` run-csharp
Nullable<int> i = null;
```

You can use the '<font style="color:#b562f9">?</font>' operator to shorthand the syntax e.g. <font style="color:#b562f9">int?</font>, <font style="color:#b562f9">long?</font> instead of using `Nullable<t>

``` run-csharp
int? i = null;
```

Use the '??' operator to assign a nullable type to a non-nullable type.

``` run-csharp
int? i = null;

int j = i ?? 0;

Console.WriteLine(j);
```

--- 

> [!faq] 
>  # Use Case:

Nullable types are useful when you need to represent <font style="color:#b562f9">optional</font> or <font style="color:#b562f9">missing values</font>, such as a user's <font style="color:#81fd83">middle name</font> or a customer's <font style="color:#81fd83">phone number</font>. By allowing null values, you can distinguish between a value that is intentionally missing and a default value that is implicitly assumed.

1. <font style="color:#b562f9"> Database operations</font>: When working with databases, some fields may allow null values. In such cases, nullable types can be used to represent database fields in C# code.

2.  <font style="color:#b562f9">API</font> development: When designing an API, nullable types can be used to indicate <font style="color:#b562f9">optional parameters</font>. This allows clients of the API to choose whether or not to supply a value for a particular parameter.

3.  <font style="color:#b562f9">Calculations</font>: In mathematical calculations, null values can be used to indicate the absence of a value. In such cases, nullable types can be used to represent the absence of a value.

4.  <font style="color:#b562f9">Property initialization</font>: Sometimes, a property may not be initialized immediately upon instantiation. In such cases, nullable types can be used to represent properties that are not yet set.

5. <font style="color:#b562f9"> Error handling</font>: When dealing with errors in C#, nullable types can be used to represent error conditions. For example, a function that searches for a file on disk may return a nullable type that represents a null value if the file is not found.

6.  <font style="color:#b562f9">Data analysis</font>: In data analysis scenarios, nullable types can be used to represent missing data values. This can be particularly useful when working with large datasets that may contain missing values.

---
References: