Status: 
Tag: #Polymorphism  #MethodOverloading
Links: [[122 Polymorphism]]

---
> [!note] 
>  # Method Overloading

<font style="color:#b562f9">Method overloading</font> in C# is a feature that allows you to define <font style="color:#b562f9">multiple methods</font> with the <font style="color:#81fd83">same name</font> within the same class, but with <font style="color:#81fd83">different parameter</font> lists. Each overloaded method performs a similar operation but accepts different types or numbers of parameters. The compiler determines which overloaded method to invoke based on the arguments provided at the call site.

``` run-csharp
class Calculator
{
	public int Add(int a, int b)
	{
		return a + b;
	}

	public double Add(double a, double b)
	{
		return a + b;
	}

	public int Add(int a, int b, int c)
	{
		return a + b + c;
	}
}

class Program
{
	Calculator calculator = new Calculator();

	int sum1 = calculator.Add(3,5);
	double sum2 = calculator.Add(3.5, 2.7);
	int sum3 = calculator.Add(1, 2, 3);
}
```

Method overloading provides a way to handle different scenarios or input variations within a single method name, improving code readability and reducing the need for multiple method names with slight differences.

--- 

> [!faq] 
>  # Use Case:

> [!example] 
> #### Handling Different Types

 Method overloading allows you to provide different versions of a <font style="color:#b562f9">method</font> that can handle <font style="color:#b562f9">different types</font> of input <font style="color:#b562f9">parameters</font>.

> [!example] 
> #### Varying Numbers of Parameters 

Method overloading enables you to <font style="color:#b562f9">define methods</font> with <font style="color:#b562f9">varying</font> numbers of <font style="color:#b562f9">parameters</font>. This allows you to provide different levels of functionality based on the number of arguments passed.

> [!example] 
> #### Default Parameter Values 

Method overloading can be used in combination with <font style="color:#b562f9">default parameter</font> values to provide convenience and simplify method calls. By defining overloaded methods with different sets of parameters, some of which have default values, <font style="color:#b562f9">callers</font> can <font style="color:#b562f9">choose</font> to <font style="color:#b562f9">omit certain argument</font>s and <font style="color:#b562f9">rely</font> on the <font style="color:#b562f9">default values</font>.

> [!example] 
> #### Adhering to Single Responsibility Principle 

Method overloading can help in adhering to the Single Responsibility Principle by providing separate methods for different functionalities, even if they share the same method name. This promotes code organization and maintainability.

> [!example] 
> #### Supporting Legacy Code 

Method overloading can be used to introduce new versions of methods while maintaining compatibility with existing code that relies on the previous versions.

---
References: