Status: 
Tag: #Struct #StructUseCase #StructSyntax
Links: [[103 Value Type]]

---
> [!note] 
>  # Struct

Structs are a value type in C# that can contain <font style="color:#b562f9">data members</font> and <font style="color:#b562f9">methods</font>. Structs are similar to classes in many ways, but there are some important differences. Structs are used in C# to represent <font style="color:#b562f9">lightweight</font>, <font style="color:#b562f9">simple</font> types of <font style="color:#b562f9">data</font> that are often used to store small groups of related values.

# Struct Declaration
A structure is declared using <font style="color:#b562f9">struct</font> keyword. The <font style="color:#b562f9">default</font> <font style="color:#b562f9">modifier</font> is <font style="color:#b562f9">internal</font> for the struct and its members. It is used to hold small data values that do not require inheritance, e.g. coordinate points, key-value pairs, and complex data structure.

---
> [!example] 
>  ## Code Snippet

``` run-csharp
struct Point {
    public int x;
    public int y;
};

Point myPoint;
myPoint.x = 10;
myPoint.y = 20;

Console.WriteLine("Point X: " + myPoint.x);
Console.WriteLine("Point Y: " + myPoint.y)
```

---
> [!faq] 
>  # Use Case:

1.  <font style="color:#b562f9">Performance Optimization</font>: Structs are often used to improve the performance of your code, especially when you need to create many small objects. Unlike <font style="color:#81fd83">classes</font>, which are a <font style="color:#81fd83">reference</font> <font style="color:#81fd83">type</font>, <font style="color:#b562f9">structs</font> are <font style="color:#b562f9">value types</font>, which means they are <font style="color:#b562f9">allocated</font> on the <font style="color:#b562f9">stack</font> rather than on the <font style="color:#81fd83">heap</font>. This can result in faster allocation and deallocation times, as well as improved memory locality and cache performance.

2.  <font style="color:#b562f9">Immutable</font> Data: Structs are often used to represent immutable data, such as coordinates, dates, or color values. Because structs are value types, they are copied by value rather than by reference, which means that <font style="color:#b562f9">changes</font> to one struct do<font style="color:#b562f9"> not affect</font> other <font style="color:#b562f9">structs</font> that contain the same values. This can help to ensure that your code is more predictable and easier to reason about.

3.  <font style="color:#b562f9">Interoperability</font>: Structs are often used in C# to interoperate with unmanaged code or external APIs that require fixed-size data structures. Structs can be used to represent the layout and memory structure of external data formats or communication protocols, which makes it easier to read and write data to and from those formats.

4.  Data <font style="color:#b562f9">Encapsulation</font>: Structs can be used to encapsulate related data members and methods into a single cohesive unit. This can help to organize your code and make it easier to understand and maintain.

5.  <font style="color:#b562f9">Small Data Structures</font>: Structs are often used to represent small data structures, such as points, rectangles, or complex numbers. Because structs are value types, they are well-suited to represent small, lightweight data structures that do not require a lot of overhead.

---
References: