Status: 
Tag: #String #StringManipulation #StringFormatting #StringConcatenation #StringInterpolation #CompositeFormatting
Links: [[102 Reference Type]]

---
> [!note] 
>  # String:

In C#, a string is a sequence of characters that represents text. In other words, a string is a data type that stores <font style="color:#b562f9">textual data</font>. Strings are reference types in C#, which means that they are stored on the heap and accessed through a reference.

# String Declaration:

There two ways to declare a string variable in C#. Using <font style="color:#b562f9">System.String</font> class and using <font style="color:#b562f9">string</font> keyword. Both are the same and make no difference.

``` run-csharp
string str1 = "Hello";

String str2 = "Hello";
```

---
> [!example] 
>  ## Code Snippet

``` run-csharp
string ch = "S";
string word = "String";
string text = "This is a string.";

Console.WriteLine(ch);
Console.WriteLine(word);
Console.WriteLine(text);
```

# String Formatting:

The `String` class provides many methods for safely creating, manipulating, and comparing strings.

#### String Concatenation:

In C#, string concatenation is the process of combining two or more strings into a single string. This is typically done using the <font style="color:#81fd83">"+"</font> operator, which takes two strings and returns a new string that contains the characters of both strings.

``` run-csharp
string str1 = "Hello";
string str2 = "World";
string result = str1 + " " + str2;

Console.WriteLine(result);
```

#### String Interpolation:

This is the most modern and preferred way of formatting strings in C#. It uses the <font style="color:#81fd83">$"..."</font> syntax to include variable values directly in a string.

``` run-csharp
string name = "John";
int age = 30;
string message = $"My name is {name} and I'm {age} years old.";

Console.WriteLine(message);
```

#### Composite Formatting:

This method uses the <font style="color:#81fd83">string.Format</font> method to format strings by inserting values into placeholders within a string.

``` run-csharp
string name = "John";
int age = 30;
string message = string.Format("My name is {0} and I'm {1} years old.", name, age);

Console.WriteLine("Hello, my name is {0}, I am {1} years old", name, age);
```

---
References: