Status: 
Tag: #Interface
Links: [[102 Reference Type]] [[118 Object Oriented Programming]]

---
> [!note] 
>  # Interface

In the human world, a <font style="color:#b562f9">contract</font> between the two or more humans binds them to act as per the contract. In the same way, an <font style="color:#b562f9">interface</font> includes the declarations of related functionalities. The entities that implement the interface must provide the implementation of declared functionalities.


It is considered good practice to start with the letter "<font style="color:#81fd83">I</font>" at the beginning of an interface, as it makes it easier for yourself and others to remember that it is an interface and not a class.

By default, members of an interface are <font style="color:#b562f9">abstract</font> and <font style="color:#b562f9">public</font>.

> [!attention] 
> - Interfaces can contain properties and methods, but not fields.
> - Interfaces **cannot** be used to create objects.
> - On implementation of an interface, you must override all of its methods
> -  Interfaces can contain properties and methods, but not fields/variables
> -  Interface members are by default `abstract` and `public`
> -  An interface cannot contain a constructor (as it cannot be used to create objects)

# Interface Declaration:

In C#, an interface can be defined using the `interface` keyword. An interface can contain declarations of methods, properties, indexers, and events. However, it cannot contain instance fields.

``` run-csharp
interface IFile 
{ 
	void ReadFile(); 
	void WriteFile(string text); 
}
```

# Interface Initialization:

To access the interface methods, the interface must be "<font style="color:#81fd83">implemented</font>" (kind of like <font style="color:#81fd83">inherited</font>) by another class. To implement an interface, use the <font style="color:#b562f9">:</font> symbol (just like with <font style="color:#b562f9">inheritance</font>). The body of the interface method is provided by the "implement" class. Note that you <font style="color:#b562f9">do not</font> have to use the <font style="color:#b562f9">override</font> keyword when implementing an interface:

---
> [!example] 
>  ## Code Snippet

``` run-csharp
interface IAnimal
{
	void animalSound();
}

class Pig : IAnimal
{
	public void animalSound()
	{
		Console.WriteLine("The pig says: wee wee");
	}
}

Class Program
{
	static void Main(string[] args)
	{
		Pig myPig = new Pig();
		myPig.animalSound();
	}
}
```

--- 

> [!faq] 
>  # Use Case:

1.  <font style="color:#b562f9">Abstraction</font>: Interfaces can be used to create abstract types that are not tied to a specific implementation. This allows you to write code that works with multiple implementations of an interface, without knowing the specifics of each implementation.
 
2.  <font style="color:#b562f9">Polymorphism</font>: Interfaces can be used to achieve polymorphism, allowing objects of different classes to be treated as if they are the same type. This is useful when you need to write code that can work with objects of different types that share a common set of behaviors.

3.  <font style="color:#b562f9">Mocking</font> and <font style="color:#b562f9">Testing</font>: Interfaces can be used to create mock objects for testing purposes. By creating a mock object that implements an interface, you can test your code without needing to create a real implementation of the interface.

4.  <font style="color:#b562f9">Dependency Injection</font>: Interfaces can be used with dependency injection frameworks to inject dependencies into objects in your application. By depending on an interface rather than a specific implementation, you can create more modular and extensible code.

5.  <font style="color:#b562f9">Separation of Concerns</font>: Interfaces can be used to separate concerns in your application, allowing you to write code that is more focused and easier to maintain. By defining interfaces that specify a set of behaviors, you can separate the concerns of different parts of your application.

---
Reference: